Title 3—

The President

Executive Order 14349 of September 16, 2025

Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate Disputes Between the Long Island Rail Road Company and Certain of Its Employees Represented by Certain Labor Organizations

Disputes exist between the Long Island Rail Road Company and certain of its employees represented by certain labor organizations. The labor organizations involved in these disputes are the Transportation Communications Union, the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen, the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.

The disputes have not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151-188 (RLA).

Parties empowered by the RLA have requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the RLA (45 U.S.C. 159a).

Section 9A(c) of the RLA provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the disputes.

NOW, THEREFORE, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 9A of the RLA, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.

Establishment of Emergency Board (Board).

There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 18, 2025, a Board composed of a chair and two other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President to investigate and report on these disputes. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.

Sec. 2.

Report.

The Board shall report to the President with respect to the disputes within 30 days of its creation.

Sec. 3.

Maintaining Conditions.

As provided by section 9A(c) of the RLA, for 120 days from the date of the creation of the Board, no change in the conditions out of which the disputes arose shall be made by the parties to the controversy, except by agreement of the parties.

Sec. 4.

Records Maintenance.

The records and files of the Board are records of the Office of the President and upon the Board's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of the National Mediation Board.

Sec. 5.

Expiration.

The Board shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order.

Sec. 6.

Costs of Publication.

The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the Department of Transportation.

Trump.EPS

THE WHITE HOUSE,

September 16, 2025.

[FR Doc. 2025-18479

Filed 9-22-25; 11:15 am]

Billing code 4910-9X-P